test-with-node/README.md, before:


# How to use this setup

We use three hostnames which are 

 - The greek node running as country CA at http://ca.node.test
 - The generic node running as country CB at http://cb.node.test
 - The keycloak server running at http://keycloak.test 

In order to use this setup you need to edit `/etc/hosts` and add 

```
127.0.0.1 keycloak.test ca.node.test cb.node.test
```

# How to setup keycloak 

 - Login using username `admin` and password `admin`
 - Create a `test` realm
 - Go to the `test` realm `Keys` settings and add a new provider. Use `java-keystore` with the following settings

   * Priority 100
   * Algorithm RS256
   * Keystore: /opt/keycloak.jks
   * Keystore password: local-demo 
   * Key alias: selfsigned
   * Key password: local-demo

   This certificate is pregenerated using the following command 

   ```
   keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -alias selfsigned -keystore keycloak.jks -storepass local-demo -validity 3600 -keysize 4096
   ```

   It is very important that the country of the certificate is `C=CA` in order for the node to find the 
   country of the SP (keycloak in this case). The actual file is located at `etc/keycloak/certs/keycloak.jks` and is mounted inside the keycloak container at `/opt/keycloak.jsk`. The key alias is `selfsigned`. 

 - Disable all other key providers except for `hmac-generated`. 
 - Go at `Identity Providers` and add a new `eIDAS SAML v2.0`. 
 - Set `Service Provider Entity ID` as `http://keycloak.test/auth/realms/test/broker/eidas-saml/endpoint/descriptor`
 - Set `Single Sign-On Service URL` as `http://ca.node.test/SpecificConnector/ServiceProvider`
 - Set `Allow create` to `ON`
 - Set `HTTP-POST Binding Response` to `ON`
 - Set `HTTP-POST Binding for AuthnRequest` to `ON`
 - Set `Want AuthnRequests Signed` to `ON`
 - Set `Want Assertions Encrypted` to `ON`
 - Set `Signature Algorithm` to `RSA_SHA512_MGF1`
 - Set `Force Authentication` to `ON`
 - Set `Sign Service Provider Metadata` to `ON`
 - Open the `Requested AuthnContext Constraints` subsection
 - Set `Comparison` to `Minimum`
 - Open `eIDAS SAML Extensions Config` (its already open)
 - Set `Level of Assurance` to `http://eidas.europa.eu/LoA/low`
 - Set `Requested Attributes` to 
 
  ```
  [{"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/PersonIdentifier", 
    "NameFormat":  "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true
   }, 
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/CurrentFamilyName",
    "NameFormat":  "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/CurrentGivenName",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/DateOfBirth",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/Gender",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":false}
  ]
  ```

# Mappers 

Go to "Mappers" tab of eidas-saml identity provider and create the following mappers: 

 - Attribute Importer with 
   - Name: Gender
   - Friendly Name: Gender
   - User Attribute Name: Gender
 - Attribute Importer with 
   - Name: DateOfBirth
   - Friendly Name: DateOfBirth
   - User Attribute Name: DateOfBirth
 - Username Template Importer with
   - Name: Username importer
   - Template: ${ALIAS}.${NAMEID}

# Authentication Login Flow 

In order to allow for selecting the citizen country you need to setup a custom login flow. 

 - Open Authentication 
 - Go to Flows and copy the "Browser" flow to an "eIDAS Browser"
 - Keep the following setup 
   - Cookie (ALTERNATIVE)
   - Flow eIDAS (ALTERNATIVE)
     - Subflow "Citizen Country Selection" (REQUIRED)
     - Identity Provider Redirector (REQUIRED) 

Adjust the configuration for "Citizen Country Selection" to contain the list of countries CA and CB.
Adjust the configuration for "Identity Provider Redirector" with default provider "eidas-saml".

Now go to "Bindings" and set as Browser Flow the "eIDAS Browser".

# CA node setup 

This setup is already performed and the files are preloaded, but we document it here for reference. 

 - Open `etc/config-ca/tomcat/specificConnector/metadata/MetadataFetcher_Provider.properties` and add 
   `http://keycloak.test/auth/realms/test/broker/eidas-saml/endpoint/descriptor` to the whitelist. 
 - Copy the `keystore` certificate from the previous section, convert it to a `.pem` file and add it 
   as a file inside `etc/config-ca/tomcat/specificConnector/metadata-certs/`. The file name does not 
   matter. Make sure you use something like `https://www.samltool.com/format_x509cert.php` to convert
   the string to the appropriate pem format.


# How to start 

```
pushd ..
mvn clean package
cp target/keycloak-eidas-idp-*.jar test-with-node/etc/keycloak/deployments/
popd
docker-compose up
```

Commit message:

Added how to keep users unique per country.

test-with-node/README.md, after:


# How to use this setup

We use three hostnames which are 

 - The greek node running as country CA at http://ca.node.test
 - The generic node running as country CB at http://cb.node.test
 - The keycloak server running at http://keycloak.test 

In order to use this setup you need to edit `/etc/hosts` and add 

```
127.0.0.1 keycloak.test ca.node.test cb.node.test
```

# How to setup keycloak 

 - Login using username `admin` and password `admin`
 - Create a `test` realm
 - Go to the `test` realm `Keys` settings and add a new provider. Use `java-keystore` with the following settings

   * Priority 100
   * Algorithm RS256
   * Keystore: /opt/keycloak.jks
   * Keystore password: local-demo 
   * Key alias: selfsigned
   * Key password: local-demo

   This certificate is pregenerated using the following command 

   ```
   keytool -genkey -keyalg RSA -alias selfsigned -keystore keycloak.jks -storepass local-demo -validity 3600 -keysize 4096
   ```

   It is very important that the country of the certificate is `C=CA` in order for the node to find the 
   country of the SP (keycloak in this case). The actual file is located at `etc/keycloak/certs/keycloak.jks` and is mounted inside the keycloak container at `/opt/keycloak.jsk`. The key alias is `selfsigned`. 

 - Disable all other key providers except for `hmac-generated`. 
 - Go at `Identity Providers` and add a new `eIDAS SAML v2.0`. 
 - Set `Service Provider Entity ID` as `http://keycloak.test/auth/realms/test/broker/eidas-saml/endpoint/descriptor`
 - Set `Single Sign-On Service URL` as `http://ca.node.test/SpecificConnector/ServiceProvider`
 - Set `Allow create` to `ON`
 - Set `HTTP-POST Binding Response` to `ON`
 - Set `HTTP-POST Binding for AuthnRequest` to `ON`
 - Set `Want AuthnRequests Signed` to `ON`
 - Set `Want Assertions Encrypted` to `ON`
 - Set `Signature Algorithm` to `RSA_SHA512_MGF1`
 - Set `Force Authentication` to `ON`
 - Set `Sign Service Provider Metadata` to `ON`
 - Open the `Requested AuthnContext Constraints` subsection
 - Set `Comparison` to `Minimum`
 - Open `eIDAS SAML Extensions Config` (its already open)
 - Set `Level of Assurance` to `http://eidas.europa.eu/LoA/low`
 - Set `Requested Attributes` to 
 
  ```
  [{"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/PersonIdentifier", 
    "NameFormat":  "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true
   }, 
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/CurrentFamilyName",
    "NameFormat":  "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/CurrentGivenName",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/DateOfBirth",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":true},
   {"Name":"http://eidas.europa.eu/attributes/naturalperson/Gender",
    "NameFormat": "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:attrname-format:uri", "isRequired":false}
  ]
  ```

# Mappers 

Go to "Mappers" tab of eidas-saml identity provider and create the following mapper. This is 
important in order to users to be correctly mapped to federated ids based on their countries.

 - Username Template Importer
   - Name: Broker ID importer
   - Template: ${ALIAS}.${ATTRIBUTE.PersonIdentifier}
   - Target: BROKER_ID

Additionally create others like the following, to adjust local username or import additional 
attributes:

 - Username Template Importer
   - Name: Local Username importer
   - Template: ${ALIAS}.${ATTRIBUTE.PersonIdentifier}
   - Target: LOCAL
 - Attribute Importer with 
   - Name: Gender
   - Friendly Name: Gender
   - User Attribute Name: Gender
 - Attribute Importer with 
   - Name: DateOfBirth
   - Friendly Name: DateOfBirth
   - User Attribute Name: DateOfBirth

# Authentication Login Flow 

In order to allow for selecting the citizen country you need to setup a custom login flow. 

 - Open Authentication 
 - Go to Flows and copy the "Browser" flow to an "eIDAS Browser"
 - Keep the following setup 
   - Cookie (ALTERNATIVE)
   - Flow eIDAS (ALTERNATIVE)
     - Subflow "Citizen Country Selection" (REQUIRED)
     - Identity Provider Redirector (REQUIRED) 

Adjust the configuration for "Citizen Country Selection" to contain the list of countries CA and CB.
Adjust the configuration for "Identity Provider Redirector" with default provider "eidas-saml".

Now go to "Bindings" and set as Browser Flow the "eIDAS Browser".

# CA node setup 

This setup is already performed and the files are preloaded, but we document it here for reference. 

 - Open `etc/config-ca/tomcat/specificConnector/metadata/MetadataFetcher_Provider.properties` and add 
   `http://keycloak.test/auth/realms/test/broker/eidas-saml/endpoint/descriptor` to the whitelist. 
 - Copy the `keystore` certificate from the previous section, convert it to a `.pem` file and add it 
   as a file inside `etc/config-ca/tomcat/specificConnector/metadata-certs/`. The file name does not 
   matter. Make sure you use something like `https://www.samltool.com/format_x509cert.php` to convert
   the string to the appropriate pem format.


# How to start 

```
pushd ..
mvn clean package
cp target/keycloak-eidas-idp-*.jar test-with-node/etc/keycloak/deployments/
popd
docker-compose up
```
